I went to the Soft Matter Gordon Research Conference last week (second week of August) at Colby-Sawyer College. It was so exhausting. I found a lovely little nook in their library, which looks like it took inspiration from Pinterest boards called “Mid-century Mountain Lodge”. This is where I spent a good amount of time, skipping talks that, while I’m sure were lovely, did not intrigue me. I feel that I avoided burning out because of this. The conference schedule does not really set us up for not burning out; the talks start at 9:00 am and end at 9:30 pm. To their credit they do give us breaks for lunch, a few hours after lunch, and dinner. But in my experience, any scientific information entering my brain after dinner goes in one ear and out the same ear. Not to mention that you’re meeting new people the entire time. Okay but anyways the point of this is to discuss how I avoided burnout, I guess. A lot of people I spent time with would insist on attending every single talk at every single session. I didn’t get the sense that they did this out of interest, but for appearances or perceived obligations. I could be jaded, because I do not feel this matters. If I don’t go to a couple of talks every day, no one will care or even notice. If someone does confront me for some reason, arguing my case would be natural. Listening to a talk while burnt out is, to me, not much better than not going in terms of retaining information. And not to be rude, but more than a few presentations are absolute stinkers.
I’ve applied this sort of min-maxing approach to my time for a while now. If I don’t think that putting effort into something will benefit me, why do it? I understand that there are many hoops you have to jump through in academia, and I can dive through them with grace and good form. I don’t even openly complain about it that much. But I will be doing the bare-minimum to satisfy the hoop managers if their opinion doesn’t affect me in the long run. Does this not make me look good? I swear I’m a good worker. Please believe me oh god. If I’m very interested in something and passionate about it I’ll put in a lot of work toward it! More than I probably need to. But I’m talking about things that we all have to deal with that we’d rather not. Those can be different for different people, so opinions may differ. But after years in academia I’m very aware of what does and does not interest me, and I allocate my energy accordingly. I only have so much to dole out each day anyways.
I feel like I’m rambling. By the end of the conference, I was still relatively high energy compared to when I arrived. 